all right so i have a very small amount
of content prepared and i hope that
there's gonna be questions to make it
much more interesting in the end so i'm
just gonna ramble through what i've
figured out and then we'll go from there
so i try to come up with the most
click-baity possible name for this
session because i'm saying i'm trying to
think how do you make unit economics
deciding and i thought conan is always
exciting and i think where i'm going
from this is i feel like so much of this
conference is based around this like
mythology of well-executed you know
strategies like it's either you know
modeled actually like the navy seals
like your team is this highly trained
expert coordinated organization
going out there and getting customers
through spearfishing or something or
like these like well-organized roman
armies whatever i don't think the real
world is anything like that it's much
more like conan it's basically you just
have a group of people with giant swords
and you're out there like trying to get
done so when i think of like from
an economics perspective and when i
think of sort of as conan economics it's
much more about trying to create a
business which just has the ability to
execute in a sloppy style and always
come out victorious i would say that
really kind of breaks down to kind of
the two major pieces here like when i
think of so much of this conference is
about basically metrics as if they're
there just to help you raise money as
the whole point of this is you start a
business you raise money and then you
do work in order to raise more money and
then if you do enough more work then you
can sell your business but like at no
point in the conversation is actually
like making money to grow the business
itself almost like it's just
very forgotten that actually the revenue
is also cash that you can spend and the
revenue you earn is actually more
powerful than the money you raise i was
talking with a uh
another attendee earlier today and we're
talking about how
the idea of raising money is celebrated
even though you should really view it
like an obituary when someone says
basically like oh we raised money you
should say i'm sorry i'm i'm sorry that
you had to like it's sorry that you had
to like eat your own flesh you're
basically like self-cannibalizing your
business to fund its growth and that's
not something we should celebrate that's
something we should lament and so i
think that you know uh
the the only thing that we should like
uh lament uh is is sort of what's like a
great conan line it's like i'm gonna
crush my enemies hear the lamentation of
their women that's like that that should
be like your philosophy going into this
like the only lamentation you should
hear your competition basically crying
out from pain because you're doing
things they can't but if you're trying
to beat them by just raising more money
that is not differentiated there's
nothing about your business that's like
raising money doesn't actually make you
a better business it just puts more
money into your bank account and
furthermore that money unless you have a
good plan to spend it is worthless so
you shouldn't think of it in terms of i
sold my hand to get 100 million dollars
hooray you should think i sold my hand
to get whatever the results are of the
100 million dollars to spend which is
probably nothing like the vast majority
of what we do is we can send it's
amazing how fast you can spend 100
million dollars and accomplish literally
nothing of any measurable value
whatsoever and that's what you actually
got for the equity that you gave up was
typically nothing that's why i think
when it comes to thinking about
economics you shouldn't think about the
economics that your vcs want or whatever
that's all like
they will invest if you have a strong
brand if you customers like you and if
you're growing like top line revenue
nothing else really matters like all the
cact ltv
none of that ever actually makes any
sense like no business was actually
built on that every business says it was
built on that no business was actually
built on that every real world business
that you admire was built on a bunch of
sloppy execution based on top of a
business model that just had really
great economics that allowed you that
level of sloppiness and so when i think
of sort of uh the key to it that things
are doing that sort of two pieces
they're sort of your your sword and your
shield
the sword is really having a product-led
growth business now this is kind of a
new thing like a new fad for uh to
describe it as but the idea of a product
led business is nothing new like
basically all the businesses you admire
the most like the googles the facebooks
even the microsoft's the uh the apples
most of them you didn't acquire their
product because you saw an ad like it's
not like you're like
i'm really in the market for the best
search engine today which one should i
go through i'm gonna do like you know go
to g2 crowd and like figure out the best
search engine like no you already know
you know because it's already won
through this incredibly profitable
underlying business model which grew not
by acquiring through ads it grew by
acquiring through viral and product led
dynamics and so if you have a product
led growth business you have an
underlying economic advantage over all
of your competition and that advantage i
think can come out when you go to
conferences and things like this it's
like by having a highly profitable
business you can just squander money in
a way like um we think of it in terms of
what we called market consensus so
before when i
started to expensify for like the first
few years we didn't go to any
conferences we didn't do any marketing
whatsoever we were just entirely focused
on acquiring customers directly through
a viral business model and the word
great
one day we're like we're growing we have
some money or things that's like hey you
know i got a great idea we should go to
a conference we should go to a
conference and get some leads there
because like that's what everyone does
we show up to like our first accounting
conference like forever ago and um and
we're like hi we're expensify we do
extension boards that don't suck and
they're like oh you're kind of like
tally i'm like i've never heard of these
guys before they're like no let me look
at this there's like this other clone
company that's basically copying us and
marketing themselves directly to
accountants at accounting conferences
and we're like well this is i don't like
this stand we need to crush
these people and so we realized our
early advantage was
all of our competition was using a
traditional business model that can only
uh has a margin of error basically yes
all the numbers are fake uh but they
have to be faked within a certain range
and you can only lose so much monies
before it actually starts raising the
eyebrows of investors and so forth and
so then when they were spending on ads
spending on conferences they had actual
roi targets they couldn't just blow
money on it but we could we didn't give
a about that conference actually
like the sum of all the leads we got in
those conferences we didn't even call
they were so insignificant compared to
the leads that we're getting through our
viral business model so year one we
showed up with a tiny ass little booth
and then we learned no one knew who we
were
and so uh year two we showed up and we
bought every single sponsorship in the
conference we got this giant spaceship
booth we got like basically you showed
up this conference and i was like into
it expensify and then everyone else even
though we're like so small and so the
difference however was everyone else in
that conference was going to the
expectation of getting leads that were
with money that they're going to
generate revenue and things like this
and so they just couldn't afford to go
big like we could because their business
model didn't have the same margins that
ours did but we just said like we don't
like care we're just going to assault
the fields of the entire accounting
industry so we did that for a year and
then we decided you know what actually
let's double down let's start our own
conference called expensicon and i've
been like what would a great conference
be like well it should be invite only uh
to only the most important people this
conference uh and furthermore it should
be all expenses paid in maui um and so
we like been to all the top people in
this entire conference who went from
like never hearing us before and
thinking that we were basically a clone
of this other company to suddenly we're
flying them and their families out to
maui uh and to like hang out in the
beach and basically come to our
conference which is just about us and
then we said like and so that worked
great so suddenly we're like we're the
top of the accounting industry even
though we hadn't paid attention to it
before that um and then we're like the
year after that it's like yeah let's do
that again but this time in bora bora um
and so we need to double down on this
and had our expensicon basically bring
the top 100 accounting thought leaders
in the world but this time we say and
you have to work for it because you're
part of our partner
group and so now if you want to be up to
the top 100 that means that you have to
sell more expensive fun and we go to
them for like months ahead of time it's
like you're close your ticket's in
jeopardy you should probably sell some
more expensify and so we actually had
that conference fund itself from all the
partners before they could even show up
and we could do all of this because we
were willing to throw tons of money
at it because it actually just didn't
matter because we weren't trying to
convince some sort of investor that we
had some sort of cached ltv ratio it was
no one's personal job dependent upon
making a number go from x to y we're
just thinking about the big picture when
we say the opportunity is so big there's
like
hundreds of millions of businesses in
the world
virtually none of them use any of this
the way we see it is the entire market's
almost entirely untapped and we need an
economic model which will let us go
capture the entire thing so we think of
this in terms of what we call market
consensus american consensus if you have
a product led business model that means
that your word of mouth depends upon
it's like numbers game you just have to
have the most mouths talking about you
and you need to make sure if a friend is
going to if you if your user is going to
refer you to a friend you need to make
that person look cool like no one's
gonna refer like the second or third
option they just like no i'm not gonna
use that that sucks but if you refer
them to something that is widely
recognized as being the best option you
give them sort of like something to talk
about with their friends and make them
look cool but you have to be cool in
order to make that work and so the key
to market consensus is basically making
sure that
by and large the market agrees that
you're the best and once you have that
then actually you get this huge in order
advantage of all this inbound activity
that you could never pay for the price
of all the leads that we get through our
products led growth model is
incalculable there's no way we could
have ever afforded it at any point in
time and so i think the key to growing a
business and the key to growing
basically all the businesses that you
admire has almost nothing to do with the
metrics involved the metrics are totally
they're there to fool
yourselves into giving a sense of
control and to fool others into thinking
that you have a sense of control but in
reality you don't in reality we're just
out there swinging swords on the
battlefield every day we wake up it's
like what is the best thing i can do
today and it might be different than
what you did tomorrow and it might have
no there are no relationships we should
do the next day but that's fine so i
think the key weapon that you have that
you can use is have a business model
which grows that the most important
feature you will ever build is the one
that signs up the next user because if
you have that feature then every user is
just a little easier than the one before
if you don't have any viral lift your
component to your product at all every
customer is just as hard as the one
before and that sucks that word that
world's awful build a business that
actually gets easier at scale not just
stays the same and also i guess if
you're talking about customer
acquisition whatever initial ads that
you buy you optimize the roi it's never
going to scale because advertising is
well priced basically whatever ad you
want to buy someone else is willing to
spend at a loss on that same ad so you
basically in any industry that's
actually worth going after there is some
vasey-backed company that's willing to
basically lose money forever on every
single ad so if your business model is
based upon buying each customer you
cannot do that profitably at scale you
might find a little angle here or there
like you're the first to advertise on
tick-tock or something like that like
maybe but you can't just like tick-tock
your way to a billion-dollar revenue
stream at some point you need something
that's inherently profitable and
advertising is not inherently profitable
because everyone you're advertising
against is basically losing money in
that same ad so i guess the last thing
before i kind of jump to questions and
just kind of yell it out it's really
think about the economics of your
business as the most powerful weapon for
long-term growth it's not there to hit
some ratio to raise the next round of
money it's there to build a business
that's actually viable and once you have
that you can crush your enemies in a way
without even blinking because they care
about the roi of their spend at some
point and you don't all right that's all
i got prepared does anyone have any any
questions at all
over here you get to yell real loud
though
i can do a great
sure so to repeat the question for the
feed so basically uh when people thunk
think product led growth they typically
think consumer functionality like
dropbox is the most classic example for
this sort of thing but like how can you
get uh product led growth to work in a
business environment where the
individual employee is not the buyer
it's kind of like what you're going to
yeah and i think that's a challenge when
we first started expensify no one
thought this would work like i remember
like basically every good idea we ever
had i was assured assured by every
single expert was impossible and could
never possibly work um but then we sort
of just stumbled into finding ways to
make it work and i think that you can do
this in every industry and probably it's
going to require creativity for hours we
realized early on that every time you
submit an expense report you put us in
touch with someone closer to the buyer
than you basically it's your boss your
finance department and so forth so we
turn every single expense report into a
highly targeted marketing message
directly to the decision maker that
works for our industry maybe not for
yours but there's probably some parallel
now the challenge however is everyone
says like okay that's great but how are
you gonna get a bunch of employees to
adopt an expense reporting application
that the company doesn't endorse like
you're gonna get people fired that's
what i was told earlier on and i'm like
i don't think so because i think that
the vast majority of the world is just
chaos it's like our competition is
primarily excel email an actual manila
envelope full of receipts and like it's
not fighting back primarily and so i
think the key is just
that's why we created a mobile app with
a consumer design that can be adopted uh
for free by individuals that solves a
pain point that they have as an employee
and actually the employees hit expense
reports way more than the admins do and
so trying to sell actually to a decision
maker extension management that's very
hard because they're kind of like
about it they're like oh yeah it's hard
for my employees to get reimbursed yeah
that's good for me um and so we go to
the people who are actually experiencing
the pain points give them a free app
that they can download without
permission enable them to sign up before
the decision maker and then turn their
activity into a marketing message to
that decision maker such that the first
time the decision maker hears about
expensify is not from us it's from a
whole chain of their high paid employees
basically advocating on behalf of it we
create basically an insurrection inside
of the company to demand expensify by
name and so that's
taken us 13 years to work out but i
would say the earliest parts of that
were worked out in like the first couple
of years and it all came by just
refusing to give in to this idea that
employees don't have power employees
outnumber decision makers a hundred to
one if you can find a way to tap into
them you have a tremendous amount of
power over that organization and
furthermore none of your bdb competition
is advertising to employees no one's
trying that model entirely so that's why
we're going after our market in a
completely different way than everyone
else in our industry so everyone else in
industry like just loses money hand over
fist their entire miserable existence
and ours is great
next question
over here
great question so
yeah that makes sense so the question
for the feed is uh what was it i'm not a
shrinking violet ceo thank you i think
um
and uh but basically like how is it how
do you maintain a diversity of invoice
of voices as a company but still take
strong uh social stances but listen um
yet i think that i mean diverse is a
tricky thing um because uh
cr recruiting
attracting retaining inspiring a diverse
range of voices is super important if
you want to have long-term sustained
creativity uh you can't have just like a
group thing in order to achieve sort of
like one vision and go into it like you
have to have a huge range of voices in
every single discussion
um and i think uh so
many of you might know uh so expensive i
took a pretty strong stance in the last
election basically saying
we mailed out 10 million users saying uh
anything less than a vote for biden is a
vote against democracy um and so that
was as you might imagine a little
controversial um
but we also believed it uh and i think
the way it kind of went down and so i'd
say and a lot of people were like holy
can you even can you even do that
like it's just
some there must be some law or something
that prevents you from doing that we're
like well we did it and we're still here
so i guess it's fine um but i would say
it's not like that was the first time we
actually ever took a stand or more
importantly the first time we we
discussed complex topics internally and
so i think expensive has a very diverse
employee base all over the world all
political spectrums are represented and
so i think the key as we kind of worked
up to this if that was like your first
time you like your first rodeo of like
taking a stand it would be chaos um but
i would say early on
uh we had already basically talked about
uh internal issues around diversity uh
we're active uh during like the blm uh
protests uh portland was like we have
our i live in portland portland's our
largest office so we're engaging with
protesters there had a lot of
discussions there as well by the time it
came to the elections we'd already
worked out a process internally that
basically how to manage a complicated
discussion to get everyone to
participate and so it worked like this
basically
everyone in the company if anyone wants
to do anything big me
anyone else you basically go to a slack
room called what's next and you say i
think that this is a problem and this is
loosely the solution let's talk about it
and my problem was it's like hey i think
that uh democracy is crumbling before
our very eyes and that creates an
adverse business climate because not
many expense reports get submitted
during a civil war um and uh the
solution is like we need to unelect the
person who is driving all of this um and
i threw that out in the company
obviously there was a lot of discussion
about that oh and i also had like and
here's a draft of a newsletter that i
think we should send um give it to the
company whole company like tears into it
basically everyone goes into it looks
through every single like line this
newsletter everyone's editing it in sort
of google docs and things like this and
then we created a separate room called
the fact check room the fact checked
room is if you have a just uh if we're
gonna if you if the company needs to
make a stand on something which is
controversial and you disagree go into
the fact check room and then it's
basically the rules of the fact check
room is you state something that was uh
like david said this and i don't think
it's true um or david says this is this
true or false and then everyone can go
into a slack thread and make one post um
without referencing anyone else in the
company there's no rebuttals or
rejoinders like this it's like make your
strongest argument is this true or if
this is false
and share your evidence and then people
jumped in this is like you know whatever
it is like the various statements
involved um and then we have basically a
group of our employees which you call
our top tier several different ways to
get there but you've been there for a
long time you're generalist things like
this and then we had a vote basically
like does is this the official company
position yes or no um and then so we
actually voted as a company as to what
do we think the company's stance is on
these particular things and then we're
going to act on that and at the very end
then we had another vote it's like okay
we've all crowdsourced this newsletter
um should we do it yes or no we need
like a super majority of this group to
actually like vote yes and we had a very
slight super majority like great we're
going to do it and i think that the the
key for all of this is to recognize that
this is a company's stance this has not
and my one regret for this whole thing
is i i signed it as myself which implies
that this is just my personal view when
it's not it went through a process to
make it the company's view and everyone
recognizes that the company is different
than ourselves and so it's possible to
disagree with the company and still like
the company and so i think that uh we so
we sent this newsletter um and uh we
haven't lost anyone over it we had no
internal churn uh it's been
very clearly good for business and so
it's actually been a great thing overall
[Music]
you